Liss the lodge is a horror film the weak
hot back at Sundance in 2019 but now
that it's out and since it's a neon
movie you know they have that Hulu plug
that lets you stream it at home which is
the best place to be for it considering
it has one of the most depressing
endings of 2020 let me explain so I've
been following these directors for a
while now in fact they were one of the
early explained videos I did way back
before men's health started doing this
genre and good night mommy was actually
the Austrian entry for Best Foreign
Language Film at the 88th Oscars just
didn't get nominated
we got like hundreds of scripts most of
them about twins they're like they just
love evil kids this would mark their
first english-language film they even
got yer goes go to cinematographer
females who absolutely killed it with
the movie she only get in thirty
five-millimeter they were able to shoot
on location and the cold but these two
are different different I sat down with
them and then asked and then I they
hired me and then after they hired me
they were like oh we really liked you
because you had nothing prepared really
their whole style is the polar opposite
to American filmmaking in Europe you
would never pitch as a director you
would never do a pitch for a film it's
just not how the system works in Europe
then we found out okay they sent it not
only to us to ten other directors and
you have basically to pitch yourself and
we are not we are not good we try to
convince producers that were not the
right people for the job they're very
good at that actually in fact one of
them used to babysit for the other when
he was 14 and got paid in VHS tapes yeah
actually it makes no sense so knowing
that about the directors full spoilers
for the lodge pretty much the movie
revolves around this family who's slowly
falling apart the dad wants to finalize
a divorce we can move on to the younger
version of his wife with the kids
absolutely hate like the daughter even
has a dog dressed up like the mom
you're lucky that I can go right back in
whiskey for you and it doesn't Christmas
is right around the corner and
considering all the crosses in the mom's
house they're clearly very religious and
yet for whatever reason the father
decides that it's a good idea to leave
his kids with his wife-to-be after the
brutal suicide of their mother in a
lodge in the middle of nowhere it's all
her fault what's her fault I've heard
the production talk about this being
like a European versus American
difference about how you leave it not
this girl survived being in a call like
he was researching her and then got with
her like that ain't a cultured thing
that's what mr. J thing it's a horror
story but it's also about um a woman
who's gone through a lot of trauma grace
may have been found but she forgets her
place once they reach the lodge because
look nobody wants to hear their future
stepmom give them a talk cuz you're not
there to replace their mom I just want
you to know that I am here if you want
to talk to me about anything why would I
talk to you I think the film we made or
we wanted to make isn't this case it's
about there is no one who is kind of a
bad guy actually they are all kind of
victims in their own way all the things
a large is about many times people don't
watch it unless it's packaged as a
horror or a thriller you know and then
they want to watch these dark topics
that's the main reason I think it's
compared a lot to hereditary a lot of it
would be the timing of it but you do
have a family grieving the loss of a
loved one with their faith being their
anchor contrasted with a woman
recovering from that faith that blinded
her but look I don't care what you talk
about people being innocent and whatnot
this was premeditated I was just
pretending if this whole movie were a
YouTube video it would have been flagged
immediately like I get grieving but
pushing your stepmom to believe that
she's in purgatory after stealing her
pills and knowing her history like these
kids made McCauley go
these kids were planning things with
that dollhouse early on he took candles
cuz he knew the lights would be out he
was messing with time stealing dogs that
would eventually die literally gas
lighting he can already edit videos so a
picture wasn't gonna be a problem like I
don't know what courts they have in
Austria but pulling a Cosby don't fly
here I don't have boundaries
look I've not trusted this kid since
Booker Henry
and now they got kept defending him was
it freezing they're very they wanted me
to jump in ice pool in the hole in the
ice and everyone in the world told them
that that's not gonna happen it was
completely safe but yeah I probably bad
for Riley because the directors tried to
keep us separate as much as possible so
we would do fun things like go rock
climbing and ice skating I would just
see it on Instagram if it was like after
lunch or something and I wasn't like
really cold they would make me go sit
lay in the snow in the woods and they
wanted to turn off the heating in the
lodge and make it really close and they
were actually cold but they weren't
allowed that's the thing with filmmakers
they want it to be real I mean yeah and
then they would be like keep rolling and
then they'd go inside and set up the
shot so in order to roll they had her
roll in the snow it's crazy but you know
it's effective
Kubrick did that back in the day by
scarring one of his actresses and no one
gives them crap for that they consider
him a legend and these two plate are
really closely Jayden's Aidan Lea is Mia
Richards Richard I'm surprised Riley
wasn't Miley but they did in fact
actually cast Riley keels real father to
play the cult leader cuz he just so
happened to grow up in a cult-like
background so surprisingly the kids were
more prepared than we thought lose your
luggage on the way to a film festival or
catch a cold at a film festival luggage
catch a cold I'm with you goats are cool
and that's why Riley survived
now the theming and interpretation of
the ending vary depending on who you ask
that includes the directors while the
ending we get has Riley off of her
medication fully believing the prank and
accepting that she's in purgatory
obviously
killing them all cos it was really no
take-backsies once you get there they
did have an original ending which
actually ended on the twist but these
two of course wanted to see what grim
things would happen afterwards cuz why
not even then it does seem like they
changed their other original ending
while filming that actually reflected
the dollhouse from the beginning it
starts with the dollhouse and the whole
film should have ended with the camera
like flying out of the house and looking
like like tall actors and the house
again like a dollhouse which
conceptually made total sense to us but
still like for the camera to pull back
and go out of the house it takes a long
time in a way and it felt too big like
the gesture in the way I personally
prefer that one why change it when
that's already something that you've
established at the beginning is to me I
think it would have made the story come
full circle I think it keeps people
guessing on what's real or not and who's
really pulling the strings and it keeps
the audience in a predatory state of
not-knowing
order for that's it not I'm living the
dead are you thank you guys for checking
out this video I'm Kirsten are your
thoughts down below in the comments
section like I said I really love the
production behind the movie in the
camerawork you know it's always
interesting to see foreign filmmakers
make the american jump but i love how
these two just don't get like i kind of
respect how much they're being their own
thing yeah it's a different approach
than what american producers obviously
want to see him they've talked about as
you can see here i still doesn't mean
it's gonna be everyone's cup of tea i
myself prefer good night mommy over this
one but you know even then others may
not but I do wish you know I'm not sure
if it was like because I didn't want a
copy hereditary considering the timing
of it or because of budget reasons like
they talked about but I really wish they
got that ending that they were talking
about cuz I don't know I feel like it
would have made the movie better like
you know I catch a red eatery now and it
was like I'm a fifth time where I
noticed in hereditary that the glimmer
from any magnifying glass was the thing
that's following him throughout you know
like that's what makes a movie a fun
fact about this one though they didn't
allow Jack Frost clips with Michael
Keaton's voice like they wanted Jack
Frost in the movie but Michael Keene has
a clause about like not using his voice
specifically for that movie I have
absolutely no idea
that was a crazy thing to note right
there but I'm curious to know you guys
thoughts any interpretations that you
have you I don't know ever gone through
something like this what advice you
would give let me know your thoughts
interpretations themes all that stuff
any other recommendations you have until
next time don't forget to comment like
and subscribe